# Practice 2.26

You are given the assignment of writing a function that determines whether one string is longer than another. You decide to make use of the string library function `strlen` having the following declaration:

```c
/* Prototype for library function strlen */
size_t strlen(const char *a);
```

Here is your first attempt at the function:

```c
/* Determine whether string s is longer than string t */
/* WARNING: This function is buggy */
int strlonger(char *s, char *t) {
    return strlen(s) - strlen(t) > 0;
}
```

When you test this on some simple data, things don't seem to work quite right. You investigate further and determine that, when compiled as a 32-bit program, data type `size_t` is defined (via `typedef`) in header file `stdio.h` to be `unsigned`.

[A.](#a) For what cases will this function produce the incorrect result?
[B.](#b) Explain how this incorrect result comes about.
[C.](#c) Show how to fix the code so that it will work reliably.

---

## A.
1. Since `size_t` is defined to be an unsigned integer value than we know from the last few practice problems that issues can arrise from subtracting two unsigned values and ending up wrapping around to `UMax`. So case 1 is where the length of t is greater than the length of s.
2. Similar to case 1, there will be an issue when `strlen(s)` is 0, and `strlen(t)` is non-zero.

## B.
Lets walk through an example of what we would get with a simple example:
```c
int main() {
    char s[] = "hi"
    char t[] = "bye"
    
    int result = strlonger(s, t);
}
```

Examining the call to `strlonger`:
```
PARAMS:
char *s - pointer to first char in "hi" 
char *t - pointer to first char in "bye"

RETURN:
strlen(s) = 2 (size_t) (unsigned)
strlen(t) = 3 (size_t) (unsigned)

strlen(s) - strlen(t) = 2 - 3 (unsigned) = UMax (unsigned wrap around)

return UMax > 0 = true (This is INCORRECT since the length of s is less than t)
```

## C.
Instead of performing any sort of subtraction that could result in wrap-around we could just compare string lengths directly! This seems like the more straight-forward way to handle this comparisson.
```c
int strlonger(char *s, char *t) {
    return strlen(s) > strlen(t);
}
```
