# Practice 2.43

In the following code, we have omitted the definitions of `M` and `N`:

```c
#define M /* Mystery Number 1 */
#define N /* Mystery Number 2 */

int arith(int x, int y) {
    int result = 0;
    result = x*M + y/N; /* M and N are mystery numbers */
    return result;
}
```

We compiled this code for particular values of `M` and `N`. The compiler optimized the multiplication and division using the methods we have discussed. The following is a translation of the generated machine code back into C:

```c
/* Translation of assembly code for arith */
int optarith(int x, int y) {
    int t = x;
    x <<= 5;
    x -= t;
    if (y < 0) y += 7;
    y >>= 3; /* Arithmetic Shift */
    return x+y;
}
```

What are the values of `M` and `N`?

---

Looking at the original function, x is mulitplied by M and y is divided by N. This tells us that the compiler will likely use left shifts to calculate the product `x*M` and right shifts to calculate the division of `y/N`.

Let's break this down and look at the product first.

We go from:
```c
x*M;
```

to:
```c
int t = x;
x <<= 5;
x -= t;
```

So we have a single left-shift-assignment operation, and a single subtraction assignment. More precisely, we are shifting to the left by 5 then subtracting the original value from the shifted one.

I have no idea how to derive this other than just plugging in some values and seeing what we get.
```
x = 1:
=> t = 1
=> [1] << 5 = [100000]
=> [100000] - [1]

100000
000001 -
-------
011110

[011110] = 30
```

```
x = 2:
=> t = 2
=> [10] << 5 = [1000000]
=> [1000000] - [10]

1000000
0000010 -
---------
0111100

[0111100] = 60
```

Not the most conclusive, but we can see that it looks like `M = 30` seems reasonable.

Now looking at the division...

We go from:
```c
y/N;
```

to:
```c
if (y < 0) y += 7;
y >>= 3; /* Arithmetic Shift */
```

So we have a sign check first where if the value is less than 0 we add 7, then we have a single right-shift-assignment operation by 3. Again, lets plug and chug with some values.

```
y = 16
=> is y < 0? No. Continue.
=> [010000] >> 3 
=> [000010] = 2

y = -16
=> is y < 0? Yes. So Now y = -9
=> [10111] >> 3
=> [11101] = -3
```

Not sure but it looks like `N = 8` could be a reasonable guess.

I must be missing something... I guess `M = 31` and `N = 8`. I need to understand more about the bias and where I went wrong with the multiplication.



